# エラーとロギング

- [導入](#introduction)
- [設定](#configuration)
- [例外ハンドラ](#the-exception-handler)
	- [レポートメソッド](#report-method)
	- [レンダリングメソッド](#render-method)
- [HTTPの例外](#http-exceptions)
	- [HTTPのErrorページをカスタマイズする](#custom-http-error-pages)
- [ロギング](#logging)

<a name="introduction"></a>
## 導入

When you start a new Laravel project, error and exception handling is already configured for you. In addition, Laravel is integrated with the [Monolog](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog) logging library, which provides support for a variety of powerful log handlers.

<a name="configuration"></a>
## 設定

#### Error Detail

The amount of error detail your application displays through the browser is controlled by the `debug` configuration option in your `config/app.php` configuration file. By default, this configuration option is set to respect the `APP_DEBUG` environment variable, which is stored in your `.env` file.

For local development, you should set the `APP_DEBUG` environment variable to `true`. In your production environment, this value should always be `false`.

#### Log Modes

Out of the box, Laravel supports `single`, `daily`, `syslog` and `errorlog` logging modes. For example, if you wish to use daily log files instead of a single file, you should simply set the `log` value in your `config/app.php` configuration file:

	'log' => 'daily'

#### Custom Monolog Configuration

If you would like to have complete control over how Monolog is configured for your application, you may use the application's `configureMonologUsing` method. You should place a call to this method in your `bootstrap/app.php` file right before the `$app` variable is returned by the file:

	$app->configureMonologUsing(function($monolog) {
		$monolog->pushHandler(...);
	});

	return $app;

<a name="the-exception-handler"></a>
## 例外ハンドラ

All exceptions are handled by the `App\Exceptions\Handler` class. This class contains two methods: `report` and `render`. We'll examine each of these methods in detail.

<a name="report-method"></a>
### レポートメソッド

The `report` method is used to log exceptions or send them to an external service like [BugSnag](https://bugsnag.com). By default, the `report` method simply passes the exception to the base class where the exception is logged. However, you are free to log exceptions however you wish.

For example, if you need to report different types of exceptions in different ways, you may use the PHP `instanceof` comparison operator:

	/**
	 * Report or log an exception.
	 *
	 * This is a great spot to send exceptions to Sentry, Bugsnag, etc.
	 *
	 * @param  \Exception  $e
	 * @return void
	 */
	public function report(Exception $e)
	{
		if ($e instanceof CustomException) {
			//
		}

		return parent::report($e);
	}

#### Ignoring Exceptions By Type

The `$dontReport` property of the exception handler contains an array of exception types that will not be logged. By default, exceptions resulting from 404 errors are not written to your log files. You may add other exception types to this array as needed.

<a name="render-method"></a>
### レンダリングメソッド

The `render` method is responsible for converting a given exception into an HTTP response that should be sent back to the browser. By default, the exception is passed to the base class which generates a response for you. However, you are free to check the exception type or return your own custom response:

    /**
     * Render an exception into an HTTP response.
     *
     * @param  \Illuminate\Http\Request  $request
     * @param  \Exception  $e
     * @return \Illuminate\Http\Response
     */
    public function render($request, Exception $e)
    {
    	if ($e instanceof CustomException) {
    		return response()->view('errors.custom', [], 500);
    	}

        return parent::render($request, $e);
    }

<a name="http-exceptions"></a>
## HTTPの例外

Some exceptions describe HTTP error codes from the server. For example, this may be a "page not found" error (404), an "unauthorized error" (401) or even a developer generated 500 error. In order to generate such a response from anywhere in your application, use the following:

	abort(404);

The `abort` method will immediately raise an exception which will be rendered by the exception handler. Optionally, you may provide the response text:

	abort(403, 'Unauthorized action.');

This method may be used at any time during the request's lifecycle.

<a name="custom-http-error-pages"></a>
### HTTPのErrorページををカスタマイズする

Laravel makes it easy to return custom error pages for various HTTP status codes. For example, if you wish to customize the error page for 404 HTTP status codes, create a `resources/views/errors/404.blade.php`. This file will be served on all 404 errors generated by your application.

The views within this directory should be named to match the HTTP status code they correspond to.

<a name="logging"></a>
## ロギング

Laravelのログ機能は、強力な[Monolog](http://github.com/seldaek/monolog)ライブラリの上のレイヤーを提供します。デフォルトでは、Lavavelは`storage/logs`ディレクトリ内にアプリケーションに関する日時のログを格納されるように設定されています。`Log` [facade](/docs/{{version}}/facades)を使うことで、自分で情報を書き込むことも出来ます。


	<?php namespace App\Http\Controllers;

	use Log;
	use App\Http\Controllers\Controller;

	class UserController extends Controller
	{
		/**
		 * Show the profile for the given user.
		 *
		 * @param  int  $id
		 * @return Response
		 */
		public function showProfile($id)
		{
			Log::info('Showing user profile for user: '.$id);

			return view('user.profile', ['user' => User::findOrFail($id)]);
		}
	}

このロガーは[RFC 5424](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424)で定義済みの7つのログレベル（**debug**, **info**, **notice**, **warning**, **error**, **critical**, and **alert**）を提供しています。
	Log::debug($error);
	Log::info($error);
	Log::notice($error);
	Log::warning($error);
	Log::error($error);
	Log::critical($error);
	Log::alert($error);

#### コンテキストに関する情報

コンテキストデータ配列がこのログメソッドには渡されています。このコンテキストデータは整形され、ログメッセージ内で使用されます。

	Log::info('User failed to login.', ['id' => $user->id]);

#### 低層のMonologインスタンスにアクセスする

Monologはロギングに利用できる、様々な追加のハンドラを持っています。必要であれば、Laravelが生成するMonologインスタンス自体にアクセスすることも出来ます。

	$monolog = Log::getMonolog();
